I mentioned that I have a bit more to say about the driver.
The driver is the software layer between the hardware and the operating system.
It also presents you, the user, with a user interface.
When you install a printer,
normally you just plug it in if it's a local USB printer,
and Windows 10, through the process of Plug and Play,
will determine if it has an appropriate driver.
Sometimes though, that driver may not be exactly what you like.
The print class driver is more or less a generic driver
that can fit many different models.
For instance, in the screenshot you see,
this is a class driver that Plug and Play in Windows 10 handed out,
and notice that the title bar says Xerox WorkCentre 5800 Series.
So this class driver will work with many in that WorkCentre 5800 series.
The problem here is that while it will be functional,
you'll be able to send basic print jobs,
a lot of advanced capabilities that the print device may
have don't show up in the class driver.
So especially if you have, say,
a multi-function print device that can do more than just print,
you'll want to make sure to use a model-specific driver.
For instance,
this screenshot represents the user interface of the Xerox driver that Xerox
makes themselves for a specific WorkCentre 5800 Series device,
and not only do you have a much more robust user interface,
but you can customize the behavior of the print device to a much better degree.
Now, whether you have to go to vendor's website and download their driver,
or just let Windows give you one, it may be a bit of trial and error.
Some vendors will make sure that Microsoft always has the latest and
greatest copies of their model-specific drivers.
In that case, you can just let plug and play and Windows Update work their magic,
but if you are seeing class drivers come from Windows
and you want more functionality,
you'll need to manually intervene and download the current drivers from the vendor's website.